Some of the world's most breathtaking beaches are located right here in the U.S., in Florida, Georgia and Hawaii, according to a new list from Tripadvisor. The list, released Tuesday as part of its Travelers' Choice Awards, breaks down the online travel platform's top 25 best beaches in the world, including what makes each one special. Some destinations boast clear waters and black sands while others are tucked behind thick forests with ravishing cliffsides. Three of the beaches are stateside, with the remaining 22 in far-flung destinations like Aruba, Greece, Iceland and Tanzania. "So whether you're looking to pack a windbreaker or a swimsuit, our list has something for a wide range of travelers — and it might even convince the most ardent beach skeptics to embrace some time on the sand," Tripadvisor's Editorial Head Sarah Firshein said in a statement Tuesday. The Tripadvisor list lands just as experts predict this year will feature travelers vacationing in not-so-typical places. Travelers in 2023 have been enjoying time off in places like Princeville in Kauai, Hawaii, and Kefalonia, Greece, according to a joint study from Expedia, Hotels.com and Vrbo. In the U.S., travelers are showing interest in cities like Missoula, Montana; Oneonta, New York; Nampa, Idaho, and Bristol, Rhode Island, the study found. Tripadvisor's top 25 beaches are: Tripadvisor built its list drawing on millions of reviews that travelers submitted on its website last year. "Pristine beach that never seems to end," one traveler wrote about Florida's Siesta Beach. "Photographer's dream. A place in the sun that warrants returning again and again." Another traveler raved about Cuba's Varadero Beach, calling it "postcard perfect." "The water was the bluest I've ever seen and the sand was powdery white," the reviewer said. Tripadvisor also released its list of top beaches in the U.S., which include: This destination is on the western shore of Maui, about an hour from Kahului Airport. Vacationers frequent this beach for its three-mile stretch of white sand and sparkling clear waters. Aside from the sand and water, Siesta has concession stands and a free trolley that takes travelers around the area. This beach, a favorite place for couples to get engaged or tie the knot, is filled with tree branches that have aged and eroded for decades. Hanalei is one of the most photographed beaches in the world because of its unique combination of white sand, blue water, palm trees and backdrop of green mountains. The beach also has a nearby river that flows into the Pacific Ocean. Ho'okipa bills itself as the "home of contemporary surfing." The Aloha Classic and Red Bull surfing competitions have taken place on this beach, among many water-related events.