Watch "48 Hours: The Idaho Student Murders" — correspondent Peter Van Sant reports on Saturday, Jan. 7 at 10/9c on CBS and streaming on Paramount+. Four University of Idaho students are discovered stabbed to death on Nov. 13, 2022. What led officials to an arrest in the case? See key dates in the investigation. Four University of Idaho students are found dead in the off-campus home where three of the victims lived in Moscow, Idaho. They had been brutally stabbed to death. The victims are identified as Ethan Chapin, 20, of Conway, Washington; Madison Mogen, 21, of Coeur d'Alene, Idaho; Xana Kernodle, 20, of Avondale, Arizona; and Kaylee Goncalves, 21, of Rathdrum, Idaho. The Moscow Police Department issues a statement saying an "edged weapon such as a knife" was used in the killings. No murder weapon has been found. The Moscow Police Department holds a press conference about the murders. Police Chief James Fry says it was a targeted attack. "We do not have a suspect at this time and that individual is still out there." The Latah County Coroner's Office reports the victims were likely asleep when they were stabbed with a large knife. Some even had defensive wounds. Police release an aerial map showing the times and locations where the victims were on the night of Nov. 12, 2022, and in the early hours of Nov. 13, 2022. Kaylee Goncalves  and Madison Mogen were at the Corner Club between 10 p.m. and 1:30 a.m. and then headed to a food truck at 1:40 a.m. Ethan Chapin and Xana Kernodle attended a Sigma Chi party between 8 to 9 p.m. and were home at 1:45 a.m. Investigators say they do not believe the driver who brought two of the victims — Kaylee Goncalves and Madison Mogen — home on the night of the murders is involved in the crime. Detectives say they do not believe the surviving roommates or friends visiting the house at the time of the murders are involved. Investigators looked extensively at information received about one of the victims, Kaylee Goncalves, having a stalker. They have not been able to verify or identify a stalker. To this date, investigators collected 113 pieces of physical evidence and sent it to the Idaho State Police crime lab. Idaho Governor Brad Little has directed up to $1 million in funds for the ongoing investigation. The University of Idaho holds a vigil in honor of the murdered students. "The most important message that we have for you and your families is to spend as much time as possible with those people," Stacy Chapin, the mother of victim Ethan Chapin, tells those who gathered. Police announce they are interested in speaking with the driver of a white 2011-2013 Hyundai Elantra spotted near the crime scene at the time of the murders. A trooper's body cam captures a white Hyundai Elantra being stopped twice in Indiana for driving violations. The driver is 28-year-old Bryan Kohberger, who is accompanied by his father. They were driving home from Washington State University for winter break to the family's home in Pennsylvania. Surveillance footage emerges of victims Kaylee Goncalves and Madison Mogen   hours before the killings walking through downtown discussing a man named Adam. Investigators speak to an owner of a Hyundai Elantra located in Eugene, Oregon. The vehicle was involved in a collision and was impounded. The owner is believed to not have any connection to Moscow, Idaho. It is reported that an FBI team surveils Adam, the man whom two of the victims discussed the night they were murdered, for a few days. Police announce Bryan Kohberger's arrest in Albrightsville, Pa., for the murders of the University of Idaho students  He is being charged with burglary and four counts of first-degree murder. Kohberger was a Ph.D. student at Washington State University, which is located roughly 8 miles from the murder scene in Moscow, Idaho. Law enforcement say they were able to use forensic analysis to connect Kohberger to the crime scene. At a hearing in Pennsylvania, Kohberger waives his extradition to Moscow, Idaho. Bruan Kohberger is brought to Idaho. The judge issues a gag order, which prohibits officials and others involved in the case from speaking about it. Public officials release an affidavit in the case against Bryan Kohberger. Among the findings: