Three people were confirmed dead after a shooting in southern Washington state early Tuesday morning, authorities said. The suspected gunman, who authorities later identified as 21-year-old Jarid Haddock, shot and killed himself later in the afternoon, police said. Police said at 2:30 p.m. PT that a person believed to be related to the shooting had been located. As police approached the person's vehicle, they heard gunshots, a member of the Yakima Police Department said in a video posted to Facebook. He said that the person had identified themselves as being involved in the earlier shootings and was being treated by paramedics. Yakima police said that the gunshots did not come from their department and no officers were injured. The suspect stole a person's car and fled the scene, according to the Yakima Police Department.  He remained at large when the department — which covers the city in the rural Yakima Valley, known mainly for agriculture — said that officers initially responded to a call that reported a man "shooting parties" at a Circle K convenience store, said Yakima Police Chief Matthew Murray at a news conference recorded at the scene and shared on Facebook. "It appears to be a random situation," said Murray, noting that "there was no apparent conflict between the parties" seen on security footage. "The male just walked in and started shooting." Police later identified the suspect as Haddock, a Yakima County resident. Police released a surveillance video image of Haddock  and said he is "considered armed and dangerous." Three people were found dead at the Circle K when officers arrived, said Murray, who initially told reporters that the gunman then crossed the street to an AMPM convenience store, and shot a fourth person inside their car. The police chief said surveillance footage showed the fourth person move into the passenger seat of the vehicle as the gunman proceeded to steal the car and drive East toward Moxee on state Route 24. At the time, Murray noted that it was unclear whether the fourth person was hit, and if they were, whether the shot was fatal. Yakima police later confirmed that there was not a fourth shooting victim. It appears that the car was the shooter's vehicle, and police suggested he may have shot the window because he had locked his keys inside. At about 2:30 p.m. PT, Yakima police issued a warning on Twitter advising the public to stay away from an intersection because of an "incident (that) appears to be related to this morning's homicide incident." "This is a dangerous person. It's random so there is a danger to the community," Murray said earlier in the day.