Under a dark Idaho sky, investigators flew Bryan Kohberger to the college town of Moscow. Police delivered him to the Latah County Jail. On Jan. 5, in an orange jumpsuit, his face vacant, the 28-year-old made what will likely be his first of many appearances in this court. He stands charged with the murder of four students from the University of Idaho: Kaylee Goncalves, Madison "Maddie" Mogen, Ethan Chapin and Xana Kernodle. Investigators say he stabbed them to death in the home the women shared. JUDGE: The maximum penalty for this offense, if you plead guilty or be found guilty is up to  death and imprisonment for life. Do you understand? BRYAN KOHBERGER: Yes. Kohberger has not yet entered a plea. In an affidavit, investigators laid out their understanding of the grim details about the night of the killings:  They say the killer left his DNA on a "leather knife sheath" found on a bed next to Maddie Mogen. And, most hauntingly, they say a surviving roommate thought she heard crying and "saw a figure clad in black clothing and a mask." The man walked past, as she stood in "frozen shock."  She locked herself in her room. The investigation is fast-moving. Authorities have not disclosed a motive or if he had a connection to the students, but we are learning more about just who Bryan Kohberger is. Just 15 days before his arrest, Bryan Kohberger and his father were driving home from Washington State University for winter break to the family's home in Pennsylvania. The journey interrupted by two traffic stops, almost 10 minutes apart, in Indiana for tailgating. Police bodycam video shows Kohberger and his father talking calmly with an officer about the trip. Then they are released with a warning. Kohberger had been at the university since August, studying to get his Ph.D. in criminology. He was also a teaching assistant in the Department of Criminal Justice. He lived in an apartment complex on campus and had an office there. According to the newly released affidavit, Kohberger had applied for an internship with the Pullman Police Department in the fall. He wrote in his application essay that "he had interest in assisting rural law enforcement agencies with how to better collect and analyze technological data." Benjamin Roberts took four classes with Kohberger. Benjamin Roberts: He seemed very comfortable around other people. He was very quick to offer his opinion and thoughts. And he was always participating fairly eagerly in classroom discussions. He says Kohberger appeared highly intelligent. Peter Van Sant: Does anything else come to mind that Bryan said to you in the past that today you think might be of interest? Benjamin Roberts: There was a comment that he made, and it was kind of a flippant guy talk thing. At one point, he just idly mentioned, you know, "I can go down to a bar or a club and pretty much have any lady I want." Kohberger arrived at the university after earning his bachelor's in psychology and master's degree in criminal justice at DeSales University in Center Valley, Pennsylvania. While at DeSales, authorities say Bryan Kohberger posted this survey, approved by the university, on the website Reddit asking ex-cons about the crimes they committed. One question he asked: "Before making your move, how did you approach the victim or target? James Gagliano: This could be a piece of circumstantial evidence. James Gagliano is a retired FBI Supervisory Special Agent and CBS News consultant. James Gagliano: The fact that the suspect was interested in pursuing a Ph.D. in criminal justice and was especially interested in … the mental state that people who had committed murders in the past … yes, it could be interesting to note. But I know a lot of researchers that study those things, too, that would never commit a quadruple homicide. And if Kohberger was involved in these murders, genetic genealogist CeCe Moore questions why he would be so careless as to allegedly leave his DNA at the crime scene. CeCe Moore: People are talking about how smart he supposedly is. And I just can't see how that could be true, because any student of forensic science or criminology would have to know that it's virtually impossible not to leave your DNA behind at a very violent, intimate crime scene like this. CeCe Moore: You know, Ted Bundy thought he was smart. But he wasn't that smart, as it turns out. After the murders, Roberts says Kohberger appeared disheveled, tired and chattier than usual. But nothing could prepare Roberts for what he learned of Kohberger's arrest. Benjamin Roberts: Looking back over the last four months, I feel like there should have been signs that I should have seen. And I didn't ... I was blindsided. Jason LaBar: This is out of character for Bryan, these allegations. Monroe County public defender Jason LaBar represented Kohberger before he was extradited to Idaho. Jason LaBar: The family would want the general public to know that Bryan is a caring son and brother —that's he's responsible, that he is devoted to them. In a statement the family said, "we care deeply for the for the four families who have lost their precious children" ... and that they "seek the truth and promote his presumption of innocence rather than judge unknown facts and make erroneous assumptions." Jason LaBar: He is innocent until proven otherwise. LaBar says Kohberger came from a close-knit family. He grew up in eastern Pennsylvania in the Pocono Mountains. His father was as a maintenance worker and his mom worked in the school system. Bryan has two older sisters – one who works as a family therapist, and another sister who appeared in a 2011 low budget slasher film, "Two Days Back," about a group of young students viciously murdered by a serial killer. She now works as a school counselor. Bree: My heart goes out to Bryan's family. Kohberger's friend, Bree, says she met Bryan at a party when they attended Pleasant Valley High School. She asked "48 Hours" not to use her last name. Bree: Bryan was really funny. He wasn't outgoing at all. But he also wasn't shy. She says they bonded over their love of the outdoors. Bree: I don't necessarily remember the conversations, but you definitely remember how someone makes you feel. … I just remember feeling OK — I was just with a friend. … Just felt natural. Bree recalls Kohberger was an average student with only a few close friends. In a yearbook photo, Kohberger's caption said he aspired to be an Army Ranger. Casey Artnz also knew Kohberger from high school. She posted this Tik Tok following Bryan's arrest. CASEY ARNTZ TIK TOK: "I used to be friends with Bryan Kohberger" ... "I'm in actual shock right now." Casey Arntz: He was an overweight kid. … So, he did get bullied a lot. But Arntz says people saw a change in Kohberger the beginning of senior year. Casey Arntz: He lost like 100 pounds. … He was a rail. … It was after that weight loss that a lot of people noticed a huge switch in him. Casey Arntz: My brother has since come out to say that even though they were friends, Bryan bullied him. Casey Arntz: He had said that he would put him in like a chokeholds and stuff like that. Bree says Kohberger started using heroin, which ended their friendship. Bree: You just saw him becoming more self-destructive. … He really stayed secluded. It's unclear when exactly Kohberger went into recovery, but both Bree and Casey say years after he graduated high school it appeared as if he was getting his life together. He was going to Northampton Community College and working security for Pleasant Valley School District. Bree: He was telling me that he wanted to get sober, that he was getting sober. … And he wanted to let me know like, "I'm gonna do better. I'm gonna be better." Bree: I'm sorry ... (emotional) Casey Arntz: The last time I saw Bryan was in 2017 at one of my friend's wedding. … And I gave him a hug and I said, "You look so good. Like I'm so proud of you." And both Bree and Casey say it appeared that Kohberger had a new focus — his studies in criminology. Bree: He wanted to do something that impacted people in a good way. Bree: People were not his strong suit. And think through his criminology studies, he was really trying to understand humans and to try and understand himself. Now Bree, like many who knew him, struggles to connect the person they once knew to this unspeakable crime. Bree: I think a lot of people who were close to him are feeling this massive amount of guilt … "Why didn't I see it? Did I miss something? … Where did it go wrong? Before it was a crime scene, it was a home to five close friends. Maybe none closer than Maddie Mogen and Kaylee Goncalves. On TikTok, the 21-year-old seniors looked like they were enjoying their final school year. In the early morning of November 13, the two friends headed to a food truck. But their seemingly carefree existence would come to an abrupt end just hours later. Kaylee and Maddie were stabbed to death in the upstairs part of the house. A hundred miles away in northern Idaho, Kaylee's father Steve got the news. Peter Van Sant: Steve, give us a sense of the shock of that moment. Steve Goncalves: You just feel like you're getting crushed by a thousand pounds of weight. Peter Van Sant: What do you want the world to know about your daughter, Kaylee? Steve Goncalves: I want the world to know, they — they got robbed. Somebody stole from you. Steve Goncalves says his daughter Kaylee would have made the world a better place. A general studies major, she was the middle child of five siblings. Goncalves says Kaylee was always up for a challenge. Steve Goncalves: She grew up around two boys that were, you know, older than her. And uh, she didn't see any reason why she couldn't be as quick and fast and as good as those two boys were. Peter Van Sant: What did she want to do with her life? Steve Goncalves: Like most young people, it changed. She was gonna be a teacher. … But once she found out how long it was gonna take to pay back her student loans, she — she said, "Dad, you know, this thing that you do with computers seems to work pretty well." She reportedly had a job lined up in Austin but made it clear that one day she hoped to settle down somewhere near her dearest friend Maddie Mogen.  Maddie was a marketing major, and she and Kaylee had been inseparable since the sixth grade. Steve Goncalves: I just felt like it was more of a sistership than it was a friendship ... And she was just one of our kids. So, it perhaps did not come as a surprise when Steve revealed at a November memorial that Kaylee and Maddie died side-by-side. STEVE GONCALVES (memorial service): They went to high school together. … They came here together. … And in the end, they died together. In the same room, in the same bed. It comforts us. It lets us know that they were with their best friends in the whole world. It was a belief Maddie's stepfather, Scott Laramie, repeated to another packed memorial just days later. SCOTT LARAMIE (memorial service): The two of 'em were a force to be reckoned with. They stuck together through everything. Maddie had a boyfriend, Jake Schriger. JAKE SCHRIGER (memorial service): She was the first person I talked to every morning and the last person I talked to before bed. They had been together for more than a year. Schriger says Maddie had a talent for making people laugh. JAKE SCHRIGER (memorial service): She was really funny. Her jokes really would come outta nowhere … And just be like, "Is that the — the cute little blonde girl that just said that?" But Maddie and Kaylee weren't the only victims.  While two other roommates were in their rooms and unharmed during the attacks, on the second floor, the killer made his way to the room of Xana Kernodle. JAZZMIN KERNODLE (memorial service): She was my baby sister, but she was so much wiser. Xana's sister, Jazzmin. JAZZMIN KERNODLE (memorial service): She would always tell me she wouldn't know what to do without me. And now I have to live this life without her. A 20-year-old junior majoring in marketing, Xana was known for being focused on her studies. So focused, she didn't make much time for dating. JAZZMIN KERNODLE (memorial service): Xana never had a boyfriend before, and my dad and I wondered if she was ever gonna get one (laughs). That was until she met Ethan Chapin. JAZZMIN KERNODLE (memorial service): The way she would talk and smile about him was something I've never seen her do before. Ethan was a 20-year-old majoring in recreation and tourism management. Jazzmin says Xana and Ethan began dating in the spring of 2022. JAZZMIN KERNODLE (memorial service): They had something so special and everyone around them knew. Especially anyone who followed the pair on Instagram. For Ethan's birthday, Xana posted photos of them with the caption: "Life is so much better with you in it, love you!" It would be her last Instagram post. Just two weeks later, the young couple was found stabbed to death in Xana's bedroom. At the University of Idaho, the pain of this tragedy is felt at the root and extends hundreds of miles away to a tulip farm in Skagit Valley, Washington. It's where Ethan worked before heading to college. His boss, Andrew Miller. Andrew Miller: So, Ethan started – it was in the spring of — of '21. … It was the best Tulip Festival. Miller says the annual tulip festival attracts close to half-a-million visitors, and Ethan stood out in the crowd. Andrew Miller: Well, he's a big guy wearin' a big smile, right? I think that's the part that I – that kinda struck me right away. Ethan – a triplet – worked there with his siblings, Maizie and Hunter, and lived in a rented house on the farm with their parents. The Chapin triplets were incredibly close says Reese Gardner. Reese Gardner:  They were best friends. … If one did something, they all did something. … It was pretty cool to see. Including attending the University of Idaho together. Andrew Miller: And that was the funniest thing, it was like, of course it was a package deal. Like, all three of 'em were gonna go there. Ariah Macagba: He was excited, I think, 'cause his siblings were going with him. Ariah Macagba says Ethan's parents had decided to live in Idaho, too. Macagba says when she heard Ethan had been murdered, she couldn't believe it. Ariah Macagba: I think the first thing I did was message Ethan. I was like, "Hey, you're OK, right? Like, this isn't real." (crying) And — obviously, he didn't respond. Reese Gardner scoured the internet for information. Reese Gardner: And I just couldn't stop reading articles and … I just wanted to know what happened, and I wanted to know why. But in lieu of answers, Gardner turned to tulips. He had an idea: name one after Ethan. Reese Gardner: I thought, "There's — there's no better way … to remember someone who had such a big part, a big role in those farms." Andrew Miller: Cause Reese called me … And it was, "Hey, can this be done, and are you interested in doing it?" And I was, "Yes, and hell yes." But creating a new tulip is a long process, so instead, Miller suggested a mix of tulips that would be a perfect tribute to Ethan: yellow and white. Andrew Miller: Yellow, of course, because Go Vandals. University of Idaho, right? That's significant. And then white is — is an eternal color, right? And tulips come up in the spring. It is a symbol of — of hope. With his parents' blessing, they named the mix of tulips, "Ethan's Smile." Andrew Miller: So, this will be a nice yellow or white tulip here in about four months. The trio planted thousands of bulbs in the state of Washington and sent a couple thousand more to the University of Idaho. Andrew Miller: And it really is our hope that we'll be able to continue to plant and that anybody that wants to remember him will be able to have their own Ethan's — Ethan's Smile Garden. …  It's a living legacy. Now it is up to prosecutors to get justice for these young victims. Forty-seven days after the murders of Kaylee Goncalves, Ethan Chapin, Madison Mogen, and Xana Kernodle, authorities apprehended the man they believed was responsible.  We now know investigators had Bryan Kohberger in their sights early on but kept it close to the vest. So, in the early days, after the Nov. 13 murders, frustration swept over Moscow, Idaho. James Gagliano: I think in this instance people were expecting a pretty quick arrest in this case, and it takes time. Steve Goncalves, father of 21-year-old Kaylee, was trying as best he could to deal with news no one expects. Steve Goncalves: Most things I'm prepared for. Most things as a dad, you can— you can handle. But somethin' like that, you just can't prepare for and you can't fix it. Steve Goncalves: And, you know, just think if you do everything right, by the book, somethin' like this couldn't happen. Peter Van Sant: Did you have any sense who might have done something like this? Steve Goncalves: No … I didn't think anybody in her inner circles was — was capable of interacting and — and her doing something that could even deserve something like that. As news spread of the murders, so did shock in the college community, which had not seen a homicide since 2015. Matt Loveless: Parents drove hundreds of miles to pick up their kids to head home and stay home for the semester. Matt Loveless is a journalism professor at nearby Washington State University. Matt Loveless: At this point, we don't know if they're gonna come back for — the spring semester there on campus. And that same thing happened in both our communities. James Gagliano: And, so, when parents send their kids off to school, for something to happen like this, I think it's a parent's worst nightmare James Gagliano is a retired FBI Supervisory Special Agent and CBS News consultant. James Gagliano: And it's a place, Moscow, Idaho, where violent crime really is not an issue. As police started their investigation, they traced the victims' final steps. The day before the murders seemed to start ordinarily. Kaylee Goncalves posted photos with her roommates and Ethan Chapin, to her Instagram account with the caption, "One lucky girl to be surrounded by these ppl everyday." That evening, Ethan and Xana attended a party at a fraternity house on campus.  Kaylee and Madison were at a bar between 10 p.m. and 1:30 a.m. They were then seen at a local food vendor, the "Grub Truck."  It is believed they all returned home by about 2 a.m. on Nov. 13. James Gagliano: So, in examining the timeline, police know that the crime took place sometime in the early morning hours. There were also two other University of Idaho students who were inside the house when the murders took place. It was later that morning that a call was made to 911 from one of the surviving roommate's phones to report an unconscious person.  Police arrived at the house at 11:58 a.m. James Gagliano: Police find the victims on the second and third floor of the house in bedrooms — a horrific and a very large-scale crime scene 'cause you're gonna be dealing with a number of different floors that need to be processed, the bedrooms where the crimes actually occurred, and then ingress and egress points. How did the — how did the alleged killer get inside the house? Through a front door? Through a window? Those are all things police will be looking at. CHIEF JAMES FRY (to reporters): No weapon has been located at this time. There was no sign of forced entry into the residence. On Nov. 16, three days after the murders, the Moscow Police held their first press conference. CHIEF JAMES FRY (to reporters): We believe this was an isolated, targeted attack on our victims. We do not have a suspect at this time and that individual is still out there. Coroner Cathy Mabbutt issued her report on Nov. 17. Coroner Cathy Mabbutt: They were all murdered through stabbing with some kind of a, probably a larger knife… She told police some of the four victims had defensive wounds, but none had signs of sexual assault.  Police continued to work the case, aided by the Idaho State Police and the FBI. James Gagliano: I just believe that the Moscow Police Department probably just didn't have a lot of experience in working a homicide, especially one as heinous as this one. After about three weeks with no arrests, and what, to the public, appeared to be no real suspects, Steve Goncalves grew more concerned that authorities weren't doing enough and that the murders would turn into a cold case. So, he says, he started working with his own team to investigate the murders. Steve Goncalves: So, we just thought, "This is the time. Let's get it out there, and let's not let it get cold. Let's get as many resources as— as possible." Peter Van Sant: And did you have any sense whatsoever as to what a motive … might have been for these murders? Steve Goncalves: Pretty girls and a handsome guy. I thought, you know, that might be somethin' to do with their, you know, stalking them in the sense of that. Meanwhile, names of possible people of interest were trickling out — including members of the community and acquaintances of the victims. But they all seemed to be part of an unfounded rumor mill, many from online sleuths.  Goncalves even had people come to him to prove they were not involved. Steve Goncalves: We — had certain suspects take their shirts off in our kitchen to show if they had scratches. And we tried to do everything in — in our powers to make sure that if we thought somebody was ruled out, we truly — we truly felt like, you know, we — we looked at 'em. Law enforcement would end up receiving thousands of tips, but the investigation, by outward appearances, seemed to be stalled.  Nearly a month after the murders, on Dec. 7, police were seen packing up the victims' belongings to return to the families, who had lost so much. It was the police chief behind the wheel of the U-Haul truck. That same day, a plea was made to the public. Police were interested in speaking with the occupant(s) of a white 2011-2013 Hyundai Elantra with an unknown license plate, spotted near the crime scene, around the time of the killings. AMANDA ROLEY | KREM REPORTER: Today's update is the first descriptive tip that we have received in several days. Detectives now want to speak with anyone who was inside a white Hyundai Elantra that was near this home on King Road around Nov. 13th. Police released photos of similar makes to the vehicle they were looking for. CHIEF JAMES FRY (to reporters): We still believe there is more information to be gathered. James Gagliano: Pushing that out to the media. Pushing that out to people on the internet. Pushing that out so that people can look for either a potential suspect, person of interest, or a potential vehicle. That goes a long way towards running down leads. It turns out that about two weeks before the police asked the public to be on the lookout for a white Hyundai Elantra, they had already shared that information with surrounding law enforcement. And on Nov. 29, 2022, a white Elantra was located by Washington State University Police. The car was registered to Bryan Kohberger. CBS News learned, that in mid-December, the Hyundai Elantra was tracked for several days by the FBI, using E-ZPass monitoring, fixed wing aircraft and ground support, as it was driven by Kohberger, along with his father, from Pullman, Washington, on that cross-country trip to the family's home in Pennsylvania. On Dec. 15, the car was stopped twice in Indiana for those driving violations, by the Indiana State Police and the Hancock Sheriff's Office. Both agencies said at the time of the stops, "there was no information available on a suspect for the crime in Idaho, to include identifying information or any specific information related to the license plate state or number of the white Hyundai Elantra …" Police did not ticket Kohberger; they gave a verbal warning and the trip continued home. And then, Kohberger's holiday came to an abrupt halt. CBS NEWS REPORT:  A suspect is under arrest for the quadruple murder of four Idaho college students. On Dec. 30, 2022, police made that announcement that Bryan Kohberger was under arrest for the murders. He was arrested at his family's home in Albrightsville, Pa., at 3 a.m., with approximately 50 law enforcement officers on the scene. MAJ. CHRISTOPHER PARIS | PENNSYLVANIA STATE POLICE: There were multiple windows that were broken I believe to gain access, as well as multiple doors. Authorities believe Bryan Kohberger acted alone. Jason LaBar: Bryan was very shocked by his arrest. … Bryan did not know why they were there, but he was aware of the case in Idaho. Monroe County public defender Jason LaBar represented Kohberger in Pennsylvania as he was awaiting extradition to Idaho. Jason LaBar: Bryan indicated to me that he was eager to be exonerated — that he was willing to go back to Idaho. On Jan. 3, at a hearing in Pennsylvania, Kohberger signed his waiver of extradition. And on Jan. 4, was flown to Idaho, where he is in jail, charged with the four murders. On Jan. 5, Kohberger appeared in court in Moscow with his new public defender to hear the charges read against him. He has yet to enter a plea. JUDGE MEGAN MARSHALL:  The maximum penalty for this offense if you were to plead guilty or be found guilty is death or imprisonment for life. Do you understand? BRYAN KOHBERGER: Yes. That same day, that affidavit was released that laid out startling new details about the murder investigation. According to the affidavit, one of the surviving roommates actually saw the murderer and stood in a "frozen shock phase."  She is referred to as DM in the affidavit, and told police that earlier, she heard a female voice say, 'something to the effect of  "there's someone here." And later, a male voice say, "something to the effect of "it's ok, I'm going to help you." Later she opened her door "… after she heard crying and saw a figure clad in black clothing and a mask..." She described the figure as "5'10'… with bushy eyebrows." The affidavit states that, according to DM, the male walked toward the back sliding door and DM locked herself in her room. It was later in the morning when that call was made to 911 from one of the surviving roommate's phones, to report an unconscious person. It is unclear what occurred in the hours before police were called. It is believed the murders took place between 4 and 4:25 a.m. Police say they discovered, on the bed in Madison's room, a knife sheath with a Marine insignia. James Gagliano: I would imagine that a — crime scene as — as grisly and ghastly as this one — that there would have been … DNA left by the perpetrator. According to the affidavit, the knife sheath was processed and "the Idaho State Lab later located a single source of male DNA on the button snap."  They were able to link it to DNA recovered from the trash at the Pennsylvania Kohberger family home. It is not clear, what, if any, connection Kohberger had with the victims. However, the affidavit states that by using cellular phone data, police were able to place Kohberger's cellphone near the crime scene "on at least twelve occasions before November 13, 2022. All of those occasions, except for one, occurred in the late evening and early morning hours …" Even with these new details, many question remain. A newly issued gag order prohibits officials and others involved in the case from speaking about the murders. Also, authorities have sealed a search warrant that was carried out at Kohberger's home in Pullman, Washington. Jim Gagliano: This is one where you don't want a mistake. You don't want something to happen during this process that's going to give the alleged suspect an opportunity to beat the case. Now, the case will work its way through the court system as parents, who lost their children, will be looking for answers. Steve Goncalves: We find the truth, you know. You get the truth, and then that — that'll — that'll be everything. You can see it in the stunned, silent faces of the kids. Faces that ask "why?" without even speaking. Young eyes glisten, bathed in the glow of candlelight at a vigil held for the young lives lost.  A ritual all too familiar across America. The flowers, prayers, the vows to carry on. In Idaho, they hold on tight to each other and to the memories of those loved and lost. EMILY (memorial service): Life is so unfair and unpredictable (crying). For Xana Kernodle's friend Emily, the wound remains raw. EMILY (memorial service): And it tears me apart knowing I can't hug her. (Crying) So hold those you love closer. Hug them a little tighter and tell 'em you love them. We'll find justice for you, Ethan, Maddie, and Kaylee. We love you all so much. And for Ashlin, Maddie Mogen's memory is still vibrant. ASHLIN (memorial service): You truly will live on forever -- not only in my heart, but in the heart of so many people that were impacted by your beautiful smile, your grace, your patience, your open heart, and your craziness. Hunter Johnson remembers a pal he could rely on — Ethan Chapin. HUNTER JOHNSON (memorial service): Ethan was always someone you could count on to make you smile and — cheer up your mood. … And I — feel so lucky to have shared so many great memories with him (emotional). But those who are older perhaps sense that pain that runs this deep, never goes away. Kaylee's father, Steve Goncalves. Steve Goncalves: You don't heal from somethin' like this. … it's never gonna happen. You're never gonna be healed. You're never gonna get through this. And when they die, part of you dies. Steve Goncalves: We're tired of all these types of crimes. We're tired of all this stuff. And — we can rally around these terrible tragedies, and … We're hopin' that as a society we come back stronger. And we — we decide to not let this be accepted anymore, you know. That's what I hope for. Bryan Kohberger's next court appearance is scheduled for Jan. 12. He will have a chance to enter a plea at a later date.