Large swathes of Southern California were being hit with wintry weather as a storm system moves through the region. The National Weather Service in Los Angeles said that Friday will be "a busy weather day," with plenty of heavy rain, wind and snow, and "even waterspouts or small tornadoes." A blizzard warning for the mountains in Ventura and L.A. counties remains in effect until 4 p.m. local time Saturday, according to the National Weather Service. This marks the first time since 1989 that the weather service has issued a blizzard warning for the Southern California mountains. A flash flood warning was also in effect for much of the L.A. metro area through 10 p.m. Friday. Some regions that experienced rare snowfall included north L.A. County's High Desert, which is located in the western Mojave Desert, foothill areas of L.A. County, the Santa Clarita Valley and portions of the Inland Empire, according to CBS Los Angeles. According to social media posts from local agencies, the weather has resulted in multiple road and highway closures after snow and ice accumulated on the surfaces. The storm also forced Major League Soccer's season-opening match between the L.A. Galaxy and the defending champion Los Angeles Football Club, set for Saturday at the Rose Bowl in Pasasdena, to be postponed. The Sierra Avalanche Center also issued an avalanche warning for parts of the Sierra Nevada mountains from Friday morning until Saturday morning. Forecasters predicted "multiple rounds" of snow, with accumulations of up to 3 to 5 feet predicted for the Sierra Nevada region. "This storm system will be unusually cold, and snow levels will be very low," the NWS said Friday. "In fact, areas very close to the Pacific Coast and also into the interior valleys that are not accustomed to seeing snow, may see some accumulating snowfall." Winter storms have sowed chaos across the U.S. this week, bringing heavy snow to places that rarely see it as well as areas that do, knocking out power to hundreds of thousands of homes and grounding or delaying thousands of flights.