In the three months since artificial intelligence tool ChatGPT was introduced to the world, workers have already harnessed it to make their lives easier. Professionals in fields including real estate, health care and finance say they save time and work more efficiently using AI. Here's how these workers described using the tool in their day-to-day jobs. Mala Sander, a top  real estate agent for the Corcoran Group who  focuses on the Hamptons, has been using ChatGPT regularly for the past  couple of weeks to help her write real estate listings and devise  marketing strategies for properties. "I asked it to write me ad  copy about a house in Bridgehampton with a pool and tennis court on two  acres and I listed the other features I wanted to highlight," she told  CBS MoneyWatch. "And it would weave this fantastic copy into something  that you could actually use." She uses  ChatGPT to change the tone of listings too. "I'll say things like,  'write this toward a millennial audience' or 'make it funny.'" Her routine these days is to have her team write the first draft of a listing "and crunch it through to see if ChatGPT can edit it down and make it more concise," she said. On a whim, she asked the bot to write her a marketing plan for one of her listings. It delivered. It gave her a breakdown of a campaign that would include digital, print and social outreach, she told CBS MoneyWatch. "It talked about everything from direct mail to online digital advertising to social media, and it even came up with some percentages that might be ideal," Sander said. Having worked as an agent for the last 20 years, Sander is quite capable and efficient without ChatGPT. "But it is useful," she said. "It's like talking to another person, almost like having work therapist to say, 'Am I moving in the right direction with this or should be looking at some other things?'" Elia Mazor, marketing manager for The Glazer Team at Corcoran, said he also uses ChatGPT to write listings and create other content. "Sometimes you get writer's block or they all tend to sound the same  because you use the same kind of template and just change words here and  there. So I use ChatGPT for a bit of inspiration and to provide a  different tone," he said. Certified financial planner Michael Reynolds uses the chatbot to  help him draft blog posts that educate his clients about  financial documents like wills and trusts. He tells ChatGPT the  topic he wants to address, and enters a prompt like: "ChatGPT, create an  introduction on why estate planning is important." It spits out paragraphs that Reynolds then edits in his own voice. In a recent article on estate planning, Reynolds relied on ChatGPT to hook readers by driving home the message that "estate planning is an act of love for those you leave behind." "I asked ChatGPT to explain that and it put together a few paragraphs on why it's thoughtful and considerate to do these things," Reynolds said. The process took about 20 minutes. If he'd worked on the article alone, it would have taken closer to two hours, he said. He  doesn't use the tool to help clients make financial decisions — that's  still a job exclusively for humans, according to Reynolds. "Financial  planning is so nuanced, individualized and personal. It is hard to  envision using ChatGPT to spit out recommendations without it  knowing the client. I see it being more valuable in generating  educational material to supplement what I am doing," he said. "We don't  just crunch numbers; we coach people, listen to their concerns and help  them talk through emotional situations. The creative, empathetic work we  do as humans is irreplaceable as of today." Nick Meyer, another financial planner who produces shortform videos on TikTok, said he uses it as a starting point to come up with ideas for new content. "I use it instead of Google search to get topic ideas, or to edit what I have already written," he said. It also helps him make his videos funny. "I can insert a couple lines of a script and say, 'Make this more comedic, insert a joke on this line, or make it more concise," Meyer said. Board-certified emergency physician Harvey Castro is advising digital health companies on how to best integrate ChatGPT into the health care sector. He says one good application is creating and translating patient discharge instructions — rules for them to follow after a medical visit. An expert in emergency medicine, if he were asked a dermatology-related question he was unsure about, Castro said he'd enter the query into ChatGPT for more information. In the past, he relied on other clinical search engines and resources like MDConsult, now called ClinicalKey. "I could type it in and it would give me gobs of information. So it's a supplement," Castro said. Doctors are also using it to enter a patient's symptoms and have it return a differential diagnosis — a list of possible conditions related to the presenting symptoms, according to Castro. "That is already happening today," he said. Rushabh Doshi, a second-year medical student at Yale University School of Medicine, likes to use ChatGPT to create sample questions while he studies for the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. Test prep services have limited practice questions, and ChatGPT can generate new ones on any topic based on the prompt he feeds it. It helps him prepare for some patient interactions, too, but uses it strictly for medical education and not patient care. "If there is a patient coming in with a disease I am not familiar with, I can go to ChatGPT and read up on it," he said. It also gives him information that helps him conduct more thorough patient evaluations. "I ask it to give me a guide of the types of questions to ask to make sure I am doing a comprehensive patient interview."