Three people were killed and several others injured in a shooting at Michigan State University Monday night, and police are still searching for the suspect. Police issued a shelter-in-place order at Michigan State, in East Lansing, following reports of gunshots fired on campus. Michigan State Police said in a tweet that the three confirmed dead were in addition to five people who were taken to the hospital. Some of the injuries were described as life-threatening. Officials described the suspect as a Black male, short, wearing red shoes, a jean jacket and ball cap, and released photos of the suspect. They said he was believed to have fled on foot. The victims were transported to Sparrow Hospital, MSU police said. Police said they received the first 911 calls reporting shots fired at Berkey Hall on the East Lansing campus at about 8:18 p.m. They said police arrived at the scene within minutes and located several victims. Another report of a shooting came almost immediately afterwards from the nearby Union building, and police and EMS tended to victims at that scene as well. There was an "overwhelming law enforcement response," Lansing interim Police Deputy Chief Chris Rozman said at a news conference. "Community members on and off campus should continue to shelter in place. Police are continuing to respond," the MSU Police and Public Safety Department said in a Twitter post. They tweeted that "Brody Hall, Snyder/Phillips Hall, Mason Hall, Abbot Hall, Landon Hall, the MSU Union, and Berkey Hall have all been cleared/secured." They also said earlier that police responded to "another reported shooting at IM East," an athletic and recreational facility, and that IM East was being "secured." The FBI is responding to assist with the incident, according to a tweet from the FBI's Detroit office. An alert sent shortly after 8:30 p.m. local time urged people to "run, hide, fight," according to CBS Detroit. Local state officials warned residents not to go to the campus. "Please do not go to MSU right now. Yes, its hard to do when you have loved ones on campus or adjacent to the campus. But it is far too dangerous as this armed suspect is moving in the area and police attempt to take them into custody," the Michigan State Police Second District posted on Twitter. Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer said she had been "briefed on the shooting at Michigan State University." "The Michigan State Police along with MSU Police, local law enforcement and first responders are on the ground," Whitmer posted on social media. "Let's wrap our arms around the Spartan community tonight. We will keep everyone updated as we learn more." MSU said all campus activities had been canceled for 48 hours, "including athletics, classes, and all campus-related activities. Please DO NOT come to campus tomorrow." This is a breaking news story. Check back for updates.